Doc: Move/rename 3 topics into app plugins how-to category (#978)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/how-to-guides/app-plugins/include-dashboards-in-app-plugins.md

  - bundling
---

> # Include dashboards with an app plugin

Reviewer: below text still references data source plugins

> This guide explains how to add pre-configured dashboards into app and data source Grafana plugins. By integrating pre-configured dashboards into your plugin, you can provide your users with a ready-to-use template, freeing them from having to build a dashboard from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to add pre-configured dashboards into app plugins. By integrating pre-configured dashboards into your plugin, you can provide your users with a ready-to-use template, freeing them from having to build a dashboard from scratch.
```

> Start by creating the dashboard you want to bundle with your plugin. The [development environment](/get-started/set-up-development-environment) provided by create-plugin can aid with creating and testings dashboards. The following steps provide instructions for both data source and app plugins, including tips for crafting an effective dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by creating the dashboard you want to bundle with your plugin. The [development environment](/get-started/set-up-development-environment) provided by create-plugin can aid with creating and testing dashboards.
```

> ### Build a dashboard for an app plugin

Reviewer: resolved in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/978/commits/5c28b14545f17622f2d801adb81c300b6092572e

To test your newly created dashboard, import the dashboard:

> ### Import a dashboard into a data source plugin

Reviewer: @jackw does it make sense to keep Step 3 in its current state given app plugins automatically import?

The two suggestions I have are to change to "Step 3: Verify your dashboard imports successfully" or "Step 3: Add navigation links to your dashboard (optional)"

Reviewer 2: ```
## Step 3: Import the dashboard into your plugin

### Import a dashboard into an app plugin

### (Optional) Add navigation links in an app plugin

```
I don't think it makes sense if this doc is now app specific. I would opt for "Step 3: Add navigation links to your dashboard (optional)" and probably add something above in step 2 that explains they're auto imported... e.g.

```
4. After adding the dashboard to your plugin, rebuild the plugin and restart Grafana to apply the new configuration.
5. App dashboards are automatically imported by the Grafana server. Navigate to your dashboard to verify it works as intended.
```
Does that make sense? WDYT?

Reviewer: made these changes in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/978/commits/772378ccc59cac9a65ce16511cef3efff287f26b minor rewording and shifted (optional) to end of line as that made it fit on a single line and looked better.
